Hello all come back to the course and blog check.
Today we talk about segregated witness segment.
You may have heard this term and today we're going to get a brief overview of what it's all about.
We're going to go into the technical details behind it but briefly we'll discuss what Stigwood is all
about why it's important.
And so that's your you're prepared for these conversations if you ever need to have.
All right so let's have a look.
This is our block and block.
Five hundred thousand one hundred twelve.
It's just a made up look of course.
And as you can see it's got quite a few things inside.
This blog is got the block number time stamp non-SS previous hash hash.
And so there's actually a couple of other things and all of those are called the block head are combined
because they are not the transactions they're not the actual content they are just like something that
goes along with the block additional information whereas the transaction that's the main body of the
transactions.
So in Bitcoin there's a limit there's a limit to one megabyte for the size of a block.
And this was included in the original design.
There's the speculations about the reasons for that and probably one of the main ones is that if you
have a block size which is too small then you don't have.
You can't include too many transactions in it and therefore you're going to have like a lot of bad like
bad with problems and network people are going to be waiting for too long to do the transactions.
On the other hand if you make the block size too large then the network is going to be slow because
this remember the whole Ledger has to be shared with the whole network everybody has to have a copy
of the block chain.
And therefore whenever a new bloke comes along we could be told that computers around the world.
And if it's too large then that will take a lot of times it was like a 100 megabyte block that'll take
a lot of time for it to go through a network and that means there's going to be more chances of orphaned
blocks more chances of competing chance and more chances for attackers to take advantage of the block
chain and check and do something because information is propagating so slowly and they have more time
to do that.
So the middle ground was decided to be one megabyte.
But we've been around the block.
The big question is did confliction has been working ok good with it but recently it's been like towards
like people I've been noticing like last year in 2017 Peter and noticing that it's been slow slow and
sometimes it be transactional black backlogs.
So they try to solve the problem how can we solve this problem.
How can we get more bandwidth in the network.
And there's a couple of options as approach of a hard fork and a self-forgetful talk football or more
about forks in module three of the course.
Well the hard fork that was proposed was to increase the block size and the soft fork was set to read
weakness and so there's two different approaches and basically the hard fork.
Eventually that's that's what resulted in Bitcoin cash that we see now.
But we will talk again we'll talk about that more and more with three the self-focus segregate witness
and what does that be.
Well so far because like an upgrade to how the block works which is not compulsory for everybody to
take on board right away it can prove it can propagate over the network of time and people can accept
it slowly.
So it's easier on the network that way.
And so what segregate witness does is it looks at the contents of an individual transaction.
So here's our transaction.
And as we discussed previously and this is why this fits in involved here because now we know about
transactions not only how they work but actually we know about signatures and public keys and private
keys and verifications and things like that.
And so we know that it actually is not as simple as just the head or the number of the transaction it's
actually got more to it.
It's got though of course the from to an amount.
That's that's the main reason for the transaction.
We need to know who we want to add to the chain.
Who's sending whom money and how much money they're sending.
But also for security purposes we cannot just include that information.
We can't just put their names there.
We have to put their addresses and also we need to put a signature on a public key.
We need to attach our signature and our public key to the transaction.
And the reason for that is because we need people we need the notes to be able to be able to verify
who has signed the transaction and has it been signed by the person who actually holds the private key
behind that and this is all good and well but the issue is that the signature public has as we could
see there huge numbers transactions don't necessarily have to be that large it's just you know one address
another other address the amount whereas a signature you can see is like a massive hexadecimal number.
And the public is also a massive exodus of lumber.
So they end up taking up to 60 percent of the whole transaction size and yet they're not the main purpose
of the transaction.
They're just a another way for verification a security mechanism but they take up so much space.
So what was proposed was to take this part of the message this heavy part which is also called the script
sig and remove it from the message strip it out of the message and send it as its own through its own
messaging service.
And on the network.
So it will still be linked to each block any action but it will go through the network separately and
that way we save some space that way each one of these transactions reduces substantially in size and
we can fit in more transactions.
And the key thing here is that you might hear that the SEC would increase it increased because the sequel
was adopted by the blocking network in on the 24th of August 2017.
And slowly it started seeing more and more nodes uptake SEGUI type of blocks being sent around.
And so.
And last thing is because the self-organize is backward compatible meaning that even nodes that didn't
accept SEGUI they still participate and everything is working fine.
So you what you might here is that you might hear that SEGUI increased the block size two to four megabytes.
Well that's not true.
That's not.
Well the the way to think about it it's technically it's not true that block size is still one megabyte
it's not going to change.
It requires a hard work to change that.
And as a result you end up with something like Bitcoin cash like you might have a split in the network
will be if you want that to happen again we'll talk about forks further down the course but if that's
not something that you can change easily it's still one megabyte what people mean when they say that
the block size increased and I'm loading in quotation marks with my fingers.
The blocks has increased two megabytes is what they're saying is that now you can include where you
could include previously you limited to one megabyte of transaction of data.
Now you can include a lot more data which feels like two megabytes of data right.
Feels like two megabytes.
But at the same time you just because these things are getting stripped and it's about 60 percent.
So even more you can even include a bit more than what it feels like to people say I could get up to
4 megabytes.
But the point is they can comparison to what you had previously if you're including X transactions previously
Now you can include like more than 2 x transactions.
So it's as if you're including two megabytes of data block.
But in reality this part is getting stripped out and it's being said separately so in the end you're
just ending up with still one megabyte of data in the block.
Just more transactions.
So there we go that's that's how sick with the old like a general overview of Cygwin.
So you know what it is.
Oh and by the way why is it called segway because I witness this data you know witness is a synonym
is uses synonym for signatures so it's a segregated signature.
You can say that but says sig I guess doesn't sound that great.
So segregated witness is mean is that you're segregating.
This block is segregating the script segue into its own messaging channel.
That's why it's called segment.
And you know hopefully now you're prepared for these conversations a bit a bit more information about
how the current block change how a big card Bitcoin blotching search by the way it's not just Bitcoin.
There's a couple of other cryptocurrency like light Cohen who use SEGUI because it increases network
throughput it increases speed and the bottom line here is that Bitcoin and block change gripped currencies
have great advantages.
But one of the main disadvantages is that they're slow is that they can only throughput or slow like
Bitcoin right now is about like 10 transactions per second if you average it out whereas things like
Visa and MasterCard they go up to tens and hundreds of thousands of transactions per second.
As you as we know everybody's using cars.
So they have a massive throughput.
So if Bitcoin and cryptocurrency are going to compete with players like that then they have to solve
problems of latency.
All of that more latency is throughput throughput probably isn't so good as one step towards that but
there's lots more steps to be taken.
This for decisions to be made in the future of Bitcoin and other currencies in order for them to have
that throughput that that will become be like that can compete with what we have with the banking system
that we have right now.
So there we go.
Hope that makes it a bit clear I would say it is for additional reading I'll redirect you to the legendary
as we call him Jimmy song.
So Jimmy song is a developer who developer of blockade.
I think maybe in bitcoin.
Not sure about that last part but basically he has like I haven't read that many things from doing so
but they are quite well written.
And also I've heard quite a lot of people say good things about him and that's like a lot of influencers
in the space of cryptocurrency always kind of reference Jimmy song for his knowledge for you know the
things that he shares and they say listen to Jimi's song.
He knows what he's talking about.
So he's got an article on medium called Understanding Stigwood blog size.
I will say it like his style is not very like is is is a bit technical so it's not completely simple
so you will find it's not that easy overread.
It's not like extremely programming and technical but he uses terms that that might be quite to Archigram.
So be prepared for that.
But at the same time it does explain a bit more details about Cygwin than what we have here.
But even though even what we had here is enough to get you started on the desexing with this is if you
want to go to more technical things and understand like exactly how or more closely how things will
work work in that technical side of the chain.
All right.
So there we go.
That's us for today.
Hope you enjoyed the Tauriel and I look forward to seeing you back here next hour.
Until then.
Bludgeons.